This story is about brother Atah Yaldiqal.
He is an Assyrian man from Iraq and was raised as a Christian.
Atah's childhood friend had noticed that Atah had a thirst for the truth.
But because of the political situation in Iraq,
the two friends got separated and moved to different countries in Europe.
But was the geographical distance a problem?
No. This is their story.
I was about 18 years old when one of my friends named Ziyad asked me,
Atah, have you read the Bible?
We started to read the Bible from Genesis.
I remember one time when we read the sermon on the Mount.
We decided to go up to the mountain to read.
Our hometown, Aglotch, has many mountains.
In June 1998, I was in an accident.
In this accident, I lost both my legs.
It was a difficult time because I was so young.
I was 22 years old, so it was very hard.
I remember I was the time in Holland.
And I hear the news from the family from Iraq.
And I went somewhere alone, and I started to cry.
I came to Sweden, and like many refugees,
I had no desire to leave Iraq.
I was talking to Ziyad all the time.
And one day in 2006, he called me and told me
that he was studying with Jehovah's Witnesses.
So I said to him,
is it logical that two billion Christians are wrong
and that you are right?
And after a few months, I told him also that I'm going to be baptized.
When he said that,
I thought I was going to get a heart attack.
And he tried to convince me that
it is not that true, that it is maybe a big mistake
what I'm going to make my life.
I remember it was in 2006.
A brother, his name was Ziyad.
He talked to me about Atta.
So I talked to brother Majid.
Ziyad had left the number with him,
and we agreed to meet in my apartment.
I decided I would give the witnesses a chance.
I started to study for a few months,
and after that he told me that he don't want to have a study.
I had a lot of things to deal with.
It was not the right time.
I was too tired to listen.
So I told him,
leave me for now,
because I cannot be bothered with anything.
So what we did, that we just stopped the study,
but I still continue to phone him,
to visit him from time to time,
to invite him to,
like the memorial or the convention.
And that's what we did for several years.
He was very patient with me.
And let it be up to me,
when and how we should study.
But he kept in contact with me to check how I'm doing.
For me, I knew very early that Atta will be a brother a day.
He was so honest.
He loved Jehovah.
He loved Jesus Christ,
and he loved the truth.
He was of great help to me.
When my mother died,
he and his wife really helped me
in a way that changed my life.
He invited me home to him,
and he asked me,
can you just explain that for me?
Why should I get baptized?
I told Majid and Ziyad,
that I have come to the conclusion,
yes, I must be baptized.
It is important.
What convinced me was the way Jehovah and his organization
treats people.
Jehovah is not obligated to provide us with a hope for the future,
but he does so out of love.
He shows us more respect than we show ourselves.
And the way the organization is united
cannot come from men.
So when I was home,
we called Jehovah to Skype,
and he told me I can't find any reason
anymore not to be baptized.
At the regional convention,
August 9, 2014,
it was a beautiful day.
It was one of the biggest days in my life,
so it was just a very warm feeling to be just
beside one of your best friends.
And remember that one day,
years ago, we were trying to understand the Bible
without having any chance to understand it.
And now we are sitting there, Jehovah's Witnesses.
I often think,
God, is it true?
Is it real?
Do I really deserve to have all these blessings?
I don't have anything.
No challenge.
Do not understand everything yet.
But still,
thanks to God.
I can understand the Bible.
I think we don't need to be afraid
that some people will never heard about the truth
if they really want to know that.
Jehovah will take care of it.
So Jehovah was actually
way too far out there for many, many, many years.
For me,
when I think of the hope of the New World,
I'll be honest and say that
it is not a question about having my legs back
and being able to jump like a gazelle.
No,
that is not what I think about.
Because there are problems in this world
both for me and for others
that make my legs not that important.
No,
let me have a good conscience.
Let there be justice by that.
I mean that
it is God who governs and no one else.
True love,
that is what I long for.